There are many different techniques that we can use in order to gather information pertaining to the DNA that we have previously extracterd. The three that we will be focusing on at this moment are the ones that have the most value to us forensic scientist today. These are:  

* Capillary Electrophoresis
* Gel Electrophoresis
* PCR Quantification
  
Firstly, we lookat the differnet separation techniques, Capillary and Gel Electrophoresis. They both operate using similar principles, they both cause separation based on charge, DNA when has been cut has a negative charge, and chain length, the strands are separated based on there size and how easily they can move through the gel or the capillary column. However the differene occurs when we consider the mediums through which both processes are carried out.  

In the case of the Gel Electrophoresis, it uses a gel membrane, of varying concentration, to separate out the DNA. This is achieved by changing the mass of the gel that was used in making the gel plate as it is called. Typically we use "Agarose" for this purpose. There are other substances that can be used either but for the purpose of this we will stick with what we know. The strength of the gel will determine how long the  gel must be let run for and also what the degree of separation will be like for the bands, see the picture below. If the gel is being made for a specfic run type, i.e human genomic DNA, Then a strong gel will need to be made in order to facilitate the degree of separation needed for a comparison to be viable. 
There is a formula that can be used to calculate how much agarose needs to be used to make a gel of a specified strength andf size. If, for example, you need a gel that is 50cm^3 (this is the volume of the gel) and has a strength of 0.5 (This refers to how much agarose is needed) then we can make a gel that is 1g/100cm^3, (or 1% w/v, as it would normally be written).
A gel is made using what is called a TAE (Tris base/Acetic Acid/ EDTA), or TBE (Tris base/ Boric acid/EDTA) buffer, note: EDTA stands for EthlyeneDiamideTetraAcetic Acid. The purpose behind both of these compounds is to allow for the follow of current that will move the previously broken DNA strands. 

http://classroom.sdmesa.edu/eschmid/Lab12%201.jpg
https://www.premedhq.com/gel-electrophoresis-and-southern-blotting

Capillary Electrophoresis works in much the same way as the Gel Electrophoresis, they each use electrical currents to move the DNA, in capillary electrophoresis a capillary column is used instead of the gel. This allows for a continual view of the DNA migration, see the images below. Capillary electrophoresis allows us analyse the DNA profile that were able to generate by the time it takes each section of DNA to reach the detector. See the image below for a better understanding and the link to one site for more information.

http://www.bio.davidson.edu/courses/genomics/method/capillary.gif
http://www.bio.davidson.edu/courses/genomics/method/capillary.html

The Dna samples are all separated based on there charge and there respective chain lengths, this means that we get what are refered to as bands. These bands are a visual represntation of the concentration of the DNA strands that could be cut at a specific point using a single ristriction enzyme. This is important due to the number of cuts that are made we will see different sized bands with different intensities.  

Now we will look at one technique that we have for the quantification of genetic material. This method uses a machine known as a "nanospec" its full name is a nanospectrometer. A sone might be able to surmise it has the capabilities to quantify very small traces of substances. 
